Dear Prof James Avery,

My name is Varsha Sukre, and I am an Editorial Submission Advisor at the Springer Nature Transfer Desk. I help authors find the most relevant journal for their manuscript and provide assistance to minimize the time and effort spent on manuscript submission. The Editor of SNCS - SN Computer Science would be willing to consider a revised version of your manuscript that fully addresses their comments. Upon submission, you are encouraged to submit a new cover letter that explains the revisions made. Please also note that your manuscript will be assessed against the journal's editorial requirements again and acceptance for publication in the journal is not guaranteed.

Alternatively, If you prefer to submit to a different journal, I would recommend the journals below:

1. Scientific Reports (Impact factor: 4.6, CiteScore: 7.2, Author Satisfaction: 79%, Median time from submission to first decision: 65 days, Open Access, APC: EUR 2190.00 | GBP 1990.00 | USD 2490.00)
Scientific Reports, a multidisciplinary journal from the Nature Portfolio, is a great destination for your paper. The editorial team, led by Dr Rafal Marszalek, welcomes submissions from across the natural sciences, psychology, medicine and engineering.
• Scientific Reports evaluates research based on scientific validity and as such has a high rate of sending submissions out to review
• The editorial team focuses on providing efficient, objective and constructive peer review and adheres to Nature Portfolio policies around research integrity and ethics
• Articles published in Scientific Reports are freely available to all and reach a wide audience due to the journal’s broad readership

2. Discover Health Systems (Impact factor: N/A, CiteScore: N/A, Author Satisfaction: N/A, Median time from submission to first decision: N/A, Open Access, APC: EUR 990.00 | GBP 860.00 | USD 1290.00)
Discover Health Systems could be the best transfer destination for your paper, given that they’ve previously published similar research about “health systems, services and informatics”.

DURING 2023, AUTHORS WHO TRANSFER TO THIS JOURNAL WILL BE ENTITLED TO A COMPLETE FEE WAIVER.

THIS MEANS THAT AUTHORS CAN PUBLISH IN THIS JOURNAL FOR ZERO COST, WHILE ENJOYING ALL THE BENEFITS OF OPEN ACCESS.

Additionally:

• Discover Health Systems provides rapid turnaround times. On average, submissions to the journal progress through peer review within one month.
• Discover Health Systems offers excellent support services that adhere to the high editorial and publishing standards of Springer Nature. The editorial team and publishing staff will guide you at every stage of a rapid and rigorous submission, review, and publication experience.
• Discover Health Systems is fully open access (OA), meaning its papers are on average accessed 4 times more often than non-OA articles.
• Discover Health Systems publishes a wide range of article types, including but not limited to Research, Reviews, Perspectives, Comments, Brief Communications, Case Studies, Registered Reports, and Data Notes.

You can see the full quality and scope of their published article history here (https://link.springer.com/search?query=&search-within=Journal&package=openaccessarticles&facet-journal-id=44250). We hope you seriously consider this journal as a home for your paper.

3. The Journal of Supercomputing (Impact factor: 3.3, CiteScore: 3.9, Author Satisfaction: 96%, Median time from submission to first decision: 33 days, Open Choice)
I recommend that you consider The Journal of Supercomputing, which has a very broad scope featuring the technology, architecture and systems, algorithms, languages and programs, performance measures and methods, and applications of all aspects of supercomputing. The journal welcomes theoretical, practical, tutorial and survey papers.

4. International Journal of Information Technology (Impact factor: N/A, CiteScore: N/A, Author Satisfaction: 97%, Median time from submission to first decision: 22 days, Open Choice)
We recommend International Journal of Information Technology as a transfer destination for your paper. It publishes theoretical and empirical research papers in all areas of computer science, information technology and all interdisciplinary streams of engineering sciences. It also accepts papers on bioinformatics, medical informatics, education informatics, computational finance, data mining and business intelligence. This fast-growing journal is indexed in Scopus and has a high review rate.

Please let me know your choice within 7 days of receiving this message. In most cases, we will be able to send your manuscript, files and other information to the new journal for you, though you will have the opportunity to revise your manuscript before the editor receives it, if you wish. Please also note that if you choose to transfer to one of our Hybrid/Open Choice journals, you have the option to publish your article open access if you wish.

Otherwise, if you have another Springer Nature journal in mind that you would like to transfer to, kindly let me know and I can, in most cases, transfer your manuscript automatically.

If you have any questions or need further assistance, please contact me by replying to this email.

With kind regards,

Varsha Sukre
Editorial Submission Advisor

---
Did you know Springer Nature Author Services can give your next submission the best chance of acceptance - with services including English language editing, independent feedback on your rejection, developmental comments, manuscript formatting, figure preparation, translation, and more. Find out more about how you can take advantage of these services
Please note that the use of these tools, or any other service, is not a requirement for publication, nor does it imply or guarantee that editors will accept the article, or even select it for peer review.

---
You have been sent this email as part of the free Transfer Desk service that Springer Nature provides when a declined paper is recommended for a transfer by a journal editor.

If you do not wish to receive further communications from the Springer Nature Transfer Desk, please email us at transferdesk@springernature.com . Springer Nature respects your privacy and does not disclose, sell or rent your personal information to any non-affiliated third parties without your consent. Please visit our Springer Nature Privacy Statement.
To ensure delivery to your inbox (not bulk or junk folders), please add transferdesk@springernature.com to your address book.
Springer Nature Limited, The Campus, 4 Crinan Street, London N1 9XW, UK. Telephone: +44 207 833 4000

SpringerNature 
